well howdy there Internet people its
Bell again so tonight we're going to
talk about spheres of influence
International Affairs if you're not
familiar with the geography of the
region we've been discussing this week
go ahead and pull up a map it might be
helpful to have a handy little visual
reference to some of this while you're
doing that I'm going to go ahead and
address something I'm sure is going to
pop up in the comments section this
doesn't really sound like what you
believe it's not tonight we're not going
to talk about how the world should work
we're gonna talk about how the world
does work modern international affairs
is about maintaining influence larger
countries maintaining influence over
smaller countries getting them to do
their bidding for economic advantage or
political advantage that's the way the
world works today doesn't mean it's
right but it's the way it is if I was
the president of the United States this
isn't what we would do we would promote
self-determination at every turn for
various peoples and we would use US
military might to do that I am NOT the
President of the United States and there
is no country on the planet that
operates in that fashion the way they do
operate is by collecting other countries
putting them in their pocket so what did
the map look like as far as influence
prior to President Trump taking office
start in Syria Syria was mixed Russian
and American influence America held
their influence via the Kurds move one
country to the east Iraq American
influence one country to the east Arad
Russian influence but warming to the
United States the United Kingdom and
France coming out of isolation one
country to the east Afghanistan American
influence but shaky to be honest
shaky okay so that was the scene when he
took office what's it look like now
Syria Russian influence complete
because we sold out the Kurds we have no
influence there there are small pockets
of American troops there's some little
groups that are still with us kind of
but no we we exert no influence in that
country one country to the east Iraq the
Parliament is asking us to leave the
President of the United States is
threatening a host nation with sanctions
via Twitter if that course is maintained
they become a Russian sphere of
influence Russia gets that and we're
going to talk more about that in a
second the repercussions from that one
country to the East Iran being pushed
firmly back into the arms of the Kremlin
no longer warming no longer coming out
of isolation one country to the east we
are in the process of just kind of
throwing up our hands and letting the
national government fall and allowing
the guys who are running the show before
we got there to take back power when
they do they will loosely be in Russia's
camp it'll be shaky like our influence
over the national government there's not
a strong central government in that
country so there's nothing to really
influence in that manner to be fair you
can't really blame this one on Trump you
would have needed somebody truly adept
at international relations and diplomacy
and somebody who truly understood the
region we didn't get that and to be
honest we didn't have anybody running
that could have pulled that off that was
gonna that one's gonna change okay so
let's go back to Iraq what happens what
happens if the president maintains
course and drives Baghdad into the arms
of Moscow what happens the first thing
that happens is any advanced weaponry
any advanced technology that we gave
them gets handed over to Russian
intelligence who reverse engineers it
and finds
weakness they can exploit then all of
these Russian intelligence officers show
up and they debrief anybody who worked
with American forces to learn our
strategic operational and tactical
practices we've talked about it in other
videos means and methods that's what
matters those are the methods Russia
gets a intelligence coup they get to
understand everything about how we work
so let's go to Iran Iran has announced
that they're going to begin enriching
without restriction and the
administration is really really mad
which is funny because according to the
administration up until today they'd
been doing this anyway what does this
tell you about what Iran was doing if
this is their their big statement means
they weren't doing it before and the
deal was working a deal the president of
the United States just withdrew from
that's where we're at that's where we're
at this is president Trump's foreign
policy legacy a never-ending chain of
Russian influence stretching from Syria
to Afghanistan you can scream Magga all
you want you can say make America great
and you can chant whatever you want to
these are the facts you can't argue this
this is what's going on it's almost like
a less than successful real estate
developer was not up to the task of
playing a real-world version of risk
with one of the 20th century's most
prominent intelligence officers now to
be fair a community organizer from
Chicago was not up to the task
either the difference is he knew it and
he had advisors who he trusted and he
had people who could hold their own
against him he didn't try to meet him
man on man to show he was a tough guy
the reality is President Trump can
barely handle criticism on Twitter and
Putin was a guy who stayed in an embassy
by himself to burn paperwork in the
middle of our
riot and then walked out and pulled a
Wyatt herb it was like yeah y'all may
get me but I'm gonna take some of you
with me
president Trump cannot handle Putin and
Putin does not respect president Trump
the reality of this is that President
Trump has one of the worst foreign
policies in American history that that's
the reality of it it's so bad it almost
seems intentional and you can go back to
the theories about that if you want to
that's fine um
I don't think it matters anymore the
damage is done there's not more he can
there's not much more he can do to
disrupt American foreign policy there's
really not the Democrats need to
understand that President Trump
destroyed everything that this country
fought and bled for for 20 years their
current presidential candidates are all
kitchen-table candidates they're about
domestic issues and that's fine that's
fine but they need to understand that if
they win in 2020 the the single most
important thing that they're going to
have to do is decide on a Secretary of
State that knows what they're doing no
political favors no this guy's might
body nothing like that you need an
experienced diplomat you need somebody
who truly understands the Middle East
and South America and somebody who is up
to the task of trying to undo some of
the damage that this administration has
done and its immense
some of it you're not going to be able
to undo it just mitigate it and I hope
that the Democratic Party understands
that because this is one of those things
that's going to have to be dealt with
when it's fresh otherwise this is going
to stay it's going to be like this now
if this was a case of the President of
the United States just reducing American
influence abroad I would be all for it
I think that would be a good move but
that's not what he's doing these actions
are pushing these countries into the
arms of the Kremlin
this isn't anti-imperialism it's it's
assisting somebody else's imperialist
ambitions anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good night